[Music]
you'd think that after 200,000 years on
this planet
humans would pretty much know all about
the creatures we share this rock with
well the recent sighting of an animal
long thought to be extinct or at least
almost only proves that mother nature
always has some surprises in store I'll
start with the big news a black leopard
has been photographed in Africa for the
first time in over a century hey this is
really a bombshell because black
leopards are extremely rare and live
mostly in Southeast Asia the cat's black
coat is the result of melanism this is a
condition where the body has too much
melanin the pigment that determines your
hair skin and eye colour melanistic
animals are basically the natural
counterpart of albino creatures which
have a lack of this pigment well about
only 11% of leopards have melanism and
considering the fact that these animals
are categorized as vulnerable in the
first place well you can imagine how
rare it is to see a black one in the
wild in Africa though no one has been
able to prove its existence for over a
hundred years the last time a published
photograph was taken was in 1909 in
Ethiopia there have been plenty of
sightings reported but no actual footage
provided Kenyans in particular have been
saying for a while now that they've
witnessed this creature out and about at
night now just imagine seeing a spot of
pure darkness separate itself from the
black of night and disappear again I'd
be pretty freaked out honestly and
locals seem to share my sentiment
because they dubbed the black clad kitty
the calf killer so there were rumors and
sightings for a long time but no real
evidence that is until Wilbur ad Lucas a
wildlife photographer from the UK
managed to snap these shots thanks to
him we finally know for sure that black
leopards do exist in Africa hooray
but the black leopard isn't the only
creature people thought were pretty much
non-existent and if these dark cats were
at least rumored to roam the African
plains some animals were considered
extinct altogether until they were
rediscovered much to everyone's
amazement one of the most fantastic
beasts who have been found this way is
the coelacanth this prehistoric fish was
believed to have been extinct for 65
million years until it was accidentally
discovered among other fish caught by a
trawler in South Africa in 1938 the most
incredible thing about coelacanth is
that they're considered a transitional
step between actual fish and four-legged
land creatures that means their mere
existence can be proof that all life on
this planet began in the ocean can you
even imagine that a creature so ancient
could have survived up to this day
incredible today we know of two species
of coelacanths one inhabits the coastal
waters of East Africa and the other
lives off the coast of Indonesia they
like to hang out at a depth of up to
2,300 feet can grow up to six and a half
feet long and weigh about 200 pounds so
yeah you're gonna need a bigger boat and
would you just look at those creepy eyes
although it's good to know that it's
still alive and well I don't think I'd
ever want to come face-to-face with this
big guy speaking of ocean dwellers
there's another one that was considered
extinct up until very recently oh moriss
whale also known as the door fin whale
before 2015
none of these whales had ever been found
and up until 2003 they'd even been
misclassified as a different whale
species Bryde's whale since not too many
of them have been found yet we really
don't have a lot of information about
them scientists only know that at almost
38 feet long they're quite small
compared to other whales and that's
pretty much it I mean sure it's no blue
whale but still I wonder how such a huge
thing could go undetected for so long
maybe it took lessons from the
sky on my list meet the giant Palouse
earthworm hes a qtpie for sure these
squirmy things have supposedly been
extinct since the 1980s but scientists
found one adult specimen in 2005 five
years later dr. Jody Johnson Maynard and
Carl umma Kerr from the University of
Idaho found another one in the soil of
the Gem State giant Palouse earthworms
have a pretty specific taste in real
estate they only live in the Prairie
lands of Idaho and Washington in a
region known as the Palouse these big
white worms can grow up to 3 feet in
length although they're usually only
about one foot long yeah only now
picture digging in your backyard in
finding a worm the size of your leg of
course I'm glad these things aren't
extinct but come on a little detail that
just might make you feel better about
these humongous crawlers is that they
smell like lilies so yeah if you want to
be original and surprise your mom on
Mother's Day with an unusual gift give
her a bouquet of Palouse worms I'm
kidding don't do that okay whales can
hide in the vastness of the ocean and
huge earthworms avoid detection in the
soil so how can you hide an elephant I'm
asking because in 2008 the World
Wildlife Fund or WWF not the wrestling
people made an astonishing discovery
high up in the mountains of Borneo there
lives a whole colony of pygmy elephants
that were thought to be extinct for
almost two centuries experts believe
that elephants from neighboring Java
were brought to the island of Borneo by
the Sultan of Sulu well whether he meant
to or not he ended up saving these
elements from actual extinction because
they were being hunted and killed off in
their homeland during the 18th century
there was no such practice on Borneo so
the job an elephant's managed to stay
alive although there aren't that many of
them only about a thousand that we know
of today it's still awesome that they're
still around what's even more
fascinating about this discovery though
is that it's the first successful
elephant translocation in history that
may
these little pachyderms are the
first-ever survivors of moving house way
to go there's another animal that
deserves a pat on the back or shell for
staying alive and it's the Fernandina
giant tortoise this huge reptile was
believed to have died out by 1906 and no
signs of it were ever seen until
February 17th 2019 a female was
discovered in the Galapagos Islands by
members of a nonprofit called the giant
tortoise restoration initiative
scientists didn't even believe it was
the furred Andina giant tortoise at
first but it was no mistake
an animal thought to have been extinct
for over a century is now officially
categorized as critically endangered not
extinct seems like a tiny step forward
but it's actually a huge leap just think
about it if there's a male out there
then the tortoises could reproduce and
bring their numbers back up fingers
crossed
turning back to the insect Kingdom
there's one absolutely unique creature
that was thought to be completely wiped
out and that's no surprise since it only
inhabits one quite small area Lord Howe
Island off the coast of New South Wales
Australia well I should say inhabited
because they went extinct in the 1960s
or so it was believed I'm talking about
the Lord Howe Island stick insect also
known as the tree lobster huh doesn't
look like any lobster I've ever seen but
hey that's just me anyway like I said in
the middle of the 20th century these
critters were considered extinct even
though there had been quite a lot of
them on the island just 100 years prior
but people suspected the tree lobsters
could somehow be hiding on balls pyramid
a nearby island some twelve and a half
miles from Lord Howe Island it's
actually more of a volcanic rock
formation and it's so steep that not too
many people dared climate just to find
out whether or not this bug was hiding
up there plus in 1984 authorities made
it illegal to explore the peak except
for purely scientific purposes well in
2001 scientists did decide to brave the
rock
scour it one last time but if you think
they did it to find the tree lobster
you'd be wrong they went there to prove
there weren't any of them left alive
so imagine they're shot when they
actually found a couple of these stick
insects in a small bush on a sheer wall
of volcanic rock the bush was home to an
entire colony of tree lobsters 24
specimens to be exact
once they were successfully rescued from
ball's pyramid Australia took them under
its wing and they now are no longer
critically endangered well if there's
one creature that clings to survival
like crazy it's the Lord Howe Island
stick insect kind of makes you teary
so what other amazing animal discoveries
do you know about share them in the
comments down below don't forget to give
this video a big thumbs up share it with
your friends and hit that subscribe
button to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
you